---
id: 82
title: Did not the extraordinary Gifts of the Spirit follow upon laying on of Hands in the Apostles time?
slug: aoc-82
categories:
  - aoc
---

It did so: But not simply as the end of that Ordinance. For that Ordinance was appointed for the Ordinary Gifts of the Spirit to the Worlds end; though it is true, God honoured and crowned that Ordinance with Signes and Wonders in the primitive time, as he did others of his Appointment: as for instance, Acts 4 the Place was shaken, as the effect of the Churches Prayer; so Preaching was extraordinarily crowned when St. Peter converted three thousand at one Sermon; and in God’s giving the Holy Ghost to the House of Cornelius while Peter was preaching, so that they spake with Tongues, Acts 10. Also God crowned the holy Ordinance of Baptism extraordinarily, when the Spirit came in the likeness of a Dove, and sate upon our Saviour Christ as he came out of the Water, Matthew 3 and a Voice heard from Heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Also the Eunuch’s Baptism was wonderfully confirmed to him in God’s taking away Philip as soon as he came up out of the Water, insomuch that he went away rejoycing. Now, Beloved, as Prayer, Baptisme, Preaching, doth not cease, though it be not so miraculously owned as in the Primitive times; neither doth laying on of Hands cease, from the same Parity of Reason, though it be not so crowned now, as in the Apostles Days. Moreover our Brethren generally do hold, that five of those Principles in Hebrews 6 are the Duty of every individual Member to believe and practise, namely, every Member (say they) ought to repent, believe, be baptized, believe the Resurrection of the dead, and eternal Judgment; and why this of laying on of Hands should be excluded from being the Practice of every Christian, being a practical Ordinance, the bare belief of it not being enough, it being among the universal Principles of Christ’s Doctrine, I never yet did, nor cannot see any good Reason.

## Proofs
- It did so: But not simply as the end of that Ordinance. For that Ordinance was appointed for the Ordinary Gifts of the Spirit to the Worlds end; though it is true, God honoured and crowned that Ordinance with Signes and Wonders in the primitive time, as he did others of his Appointment: as for instance, Acts 4 the Place was shaken, as the effect of the Churches Prayer; so Preaching was extraordinarily crowned when St. Peter converted three thousand at one Sermon; and in God’s giving the Holy Ghost to the House of Cornelius while Peter was preaching, so that they spake with Tongues, Acts 10. Also God crowned the holy Ordinance of Baptism extraordinarily, when the Spirit came in the likeness of a Dove, and sate upon our Saviour Christ as he came out of the Water, Matthew 3 and a Voice heard from Heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Also the Eunuch’s Baptism was wonderfully confirmed to him in God’s taking away Philip as soon as he came up out of the Water, insomuch that he went away rejoycing. Now, Beloved, as Prayer, Baptisme, Preaching, doth not cease, though it be not so miraculously owned as in the Primitive times; neither doth laying on of Hands cease, from the same Parity of Reason, though it be not so crowned now, as in the Apostles Days. Moreover our Brethren generally do hold, that five of those Principles in Hebrews 6 are the Duty of every individual Member to believe and practise, namely, every Member (say they) ought to repent, believe, be baptized, believe the Resurrection of the dead, and eternal Judgment; and why this of laying on of Hands should be excluded from being the Practice of every Christian, being a practical Ordinance, the bare belief of it not being enough, it being among the universal Principles of Christ’s Doctrine, I never yet did, nor cannot see any good Reason.
