---
id: 81
title: Is it the Duty of every Christian to be under this Practice?
slug: aoc-81
categories:
  - aoc
---

It is so: And appeareth plainly, if we do first consider the Practice of the Primitive Saints, we may read in Acts 8:12–19, of Men and Women that were baptized by Philip in Samaria, which when the Church at Jerusalem heard thereof, they sent down St. Peter and St. John (two Apostles) to them, who when they came thither, laid their Hands on them, and they received the Holy Ghost. What, them! some may say? were these they that were baptized which were Men and Women? So likewise in Acts 19:6–7. When Paul came to Ephesus he found certain Disciples there who were baptised, but had not heard whether there was any Holy Ghost, nor I conceive of the Promise of the Holy Ghost mentioned in Acts 1:4 then the Apostle layeth his Hands on them, and they received the Holy Ghost; and it is said the number of them was about twelve; and Reason sheweth us from this place, and Acts 8 where St. Peter and St. John laid hands on Men and Women, that had here bin twelve score, he would have laid his Hands on them all. And whereas ’tis objected, we do not find the three thousand in Acts 2 under this Ordinance, nor many others which were baptised. As to the three thousand ’tis plain enough they had bin taught it, and doubtless so practised this Ordinance, if we consider the Apostle writing to the Jews, in Hebrews 5 telleth them they had need be taught again the first Principles of the Oracles of God, of which Oracles, Laying on of Hands was one. And as for others which were baptised, where mention is not made of their being under this Ordinance, we may also say many hundreds were baptised which we have no mention of. Shall we conclude many of the Apostles were not baptised, because it is not particularly mentioned? so we must conclude the primitive Saints were not short in this point, although it be not always specified; forasmuch as it is called one of God’s Oracles, as we all know the Moral Law was, wch is perpetually binding, and universally obliging; also called a Principle of Christs Doctrine, yea one of the first Principles; and that is not all, but called a foundation Principle, this with the other five must be laid first in that foundation, on which the Superstructure of Christianity must be built. And would it not have bin very unbecoming the Jews when God gave them ten Commandments, for them to have excluded the fourth? is it not also as unbecoming for any to exclude the fourth Principle of Laying on of Hands, a practical Principle of the Doctrine of Christ, and so practised by the Primitive Christians?

## Proofs
- It is so: And appeareth plainly, if we do first consider the Practice of the Primitive Saints, we may read in Acts 8:12–19, of Men and Women that were baptized by Philip in Samaria, which when the Church at Jerusalem heard thereof, they sent down St. Peter and St. John (two Apostles) to them, who when they came thither, laid their Hands on them, and they received the Holy Ghost. (Hebrews 5:1–2; Acts 7:38; Hebrews 1:2)
- What, them! some may say? were these they that were baptized which were Men and Women? So likewise in Acts 19:6–7. When Paul came to Ephesus he found certain Disciples there who were baptised, but had not heard whether there was any Holy Ghost, nor I conceive of the Promise of the Holy Ghost mentioned in Acts 1:4 then the Apostle layeth his Hands on them, and they received the Holy Ghost; and it is said the number of them was about twelve; and Reason sheweth us from this place, and Acts 8 where St. Peter and St. John laid hands on Men and Women, that had here bin twelve score, he would have laid his Hands on them all. And whereas ’tis objected, we do not find the three thousand in Acts 2 under this Ordinance, nor many others which were baptised. As to the three thousand ’tis plain enough they had bin taught it, and doubtless so practised this Ordinance, if we consider the Apostle writing to the Jews, in Hebrews 5 telleth them they had need be taught again the first Principles of the Oracles of God, of which Oracles, Laying on of Hands was one. And as for others which were baptised, where mention is not made of their being under this Ordinance, we may also say many hundreds were baptised which we have no mention of. Shall we conclude many of the Apostles were not baptised, because it is not particularly mentioned? so we must conclude the primitive Saints were not short in this point, although it be not always specified; forasmuch as it is called one of God’s Oracles, as we all know the Moral Law was, wch is perpetually binding, and universally obliging; also called a (Hebrews 5:1–2; Acts 7:38; Hebrews 1:2)
- Principle of Christs Doctrine, yea one of the first Principles; and that is not all, but called a foundation Principle, this with the other five must be laid first in that foundation, on which the Superstructure of Christianity must be built. And would it not have bin very unbecoming the Jews when God gave them ten Commandments, for them to have excluded the fourth? is it not also as unbecoming for any to exclude the fourth Principle of Laying on of Hands, a practical Principle of the Doctrine of Christ, and so practised by the Primitive Christians?
