---
id: 100
title: How is Baptism rightly administered?
slug: bc-100
categories:
  - bc
---

Baptism is rightly administered by immersion, or dipping the whole body of the party in water, into the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, according to Christ’s institution, and the practice of the apostles, and not by sprinkling or pouring of water, or dipping some part of the body, after the tradition of men.

## Proofs
- Baptism is rightly administered by immersion, or dipping the whole body of the party in water, into the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, according to Christ’s institution, and the practice of the apostles, (Matthew 3:16; John 3:23; 4:1–2; Matthew 28:19–20; Acts 8:38; Romans 6:4; Colossians 2:12)
- and not by sprinkling or pouring of water, or dipping some part of the body, after the tradition of men.

<!-- LONG_ANSWER -->

## Additional Exposition

### Practical response

**Q:** Should we be concerned about the mode or manner of religious worship?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** Let one of the priests teach them the manner of the God of the land, (2 Kings 17:27)

**Q:** And will God be displeased if we are negligent therein?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** The Lord our God made a breach upon us, for that we sought him not after the due order, (1 Chronicles 15:13)

### Section 2

**Q:** Is water requisite in baptism?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** See here is water, (Acts 8:36)

**Q:** And much water?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** John was also baptizing in Enon, near to Salim, because there was much water there, (John 3:23)

**Q:** And is this used to signify an internal washing?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** And our bodies washed with pure water, (Hebrews 10:22)

### Section 3

**Q:** Does baptism appear to be by immersion from the action of the person administering?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** For Philip went down into the water, and baptized the eunuch, (Acts 8:38)

**Q:** And the action of the person to whom it was administered?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** And Jesus when he was baptized, went straight way up out of the water, (Matthew 3:16)

**Q:** And from the place where it was administered?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** They were baptized of him in Jordan, (Matthew 3:6)

**Q:** And from the thing signified thereby?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** Being buried with him in baptism, wherein also ye are risen with him, (Colossians 2:12)

**Q:** But may not sprinkling or pouring of water do as well?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** For there is but one baptism, (Ephesians 4:5)

### Section 4

**Q:** Was water brought or carried to the persons that were to be baptized?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** The same baptizeth, and all men come unto him, (John 3:20)

**Q:** Might not water be applied to the persons when they came?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** For Jesus was baptized of John into Jordan, (Mark 1:9)

**Q:** But may not another method be used in cold countries?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** Go ye into all the world, and teach all nations, baptizing (or dipping) them, (Matthew 28:19)

### Section 5

**Q:** Was the children of Israel’s passage through the Red sea a figure of baptism?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** They were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea, (1 Corinthians 10:1–2)

**Q:** May we not suppose then, that they were sprinkled by the cloud?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** For it was a cloud of darkness to the Egyptians but gave light to the Israelites, (Exodus 14:20)

**Q:** Or that they were washed by the sea?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** For the waters were a wall to them on their right hand, and on their left, (Exodus 14:25)
