---
id: 19
title: Did all mankind fall in Adam’s first transgression?
slug: bc-19
categories:
  - bc
relatedAnswers:
  - wsc-16
---

The covenant being made with Adam, not only for himself but for his posterity, all mankind descending from him by ordinary generation sinned in him, and fell with him in his first transgression.

## Proofs
- The covenant being made with Adam, not only for himself but for his posterity, all mankind descending from him by ordinary generation sinned in him, and fell with him in his first transgression. (Genesis 2:16–17; Romans 5:12; 1 Corinthians 15:21–22)

<!-- LONG_ANSWER -->

## Additional Exposition

<a href="https://baptistcatechism.org/beddome/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">From Benjamin Beddome</a>


### Section 1

**Q:** Are all mankind descended from Adam and Eve?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** For Adam called his wife’s name Eve because she was the mother of all living, (Genesis 3:20)

**Q:** Are we all concerned in our first parent’s disobedience?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** By one man sin entered into the world, (Romans 5:12)

**Q:** Is our nature tainted with the filth of that sin?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** For what is man that he should be clean, and he which is born of a woman that he should be righteous, (Job 15:14)

**Q:** Is the guilt of it imputed to us?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** For by the offence of one judgment came upon all men to condemnation, (Romans 5:18)

**Q:** Are we exposed to the dreadful consequences of it?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** So death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned, (Romans 5:12)

**Q:** And have we no power of our own to prevent all this?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** For whilst we were yet without strength Christ died for us, (Romans 5:6)

### Section 2

**Q:** Was this the case of Adam’s immediate descendants?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** For he begat a son in his own likeness, (Genesis 5:3)

**Q:** Is it the case of all those who in future ages descend from him?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** For we have all borne the image of the earthly, (1 Corinthians 15:49)

**Q:** But was it the case of Christ?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** He was that holy thing, (Luke 1:35)

**Q:** Was he therefore descended from Adam in a way of ordinary generation?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** For his mother was found with child by the Holy Ghost, (Matthew 1:18)

**Q:** Should we be humbled for original sin?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** Behold I was shapen in iniquity, (Psalm 51:5)
