---
id: 55
title: What is required in the second commandment?
slug: bc-55
categories:
  - bc
relatedAnswers:
  - wlc-108
---

The second commandment requireth the receiving, observing, and keeping pure and entire all such religious worship and ordinances, as God hath appointed in his word.

## Proofs
- The second commandment requireth the receiving, observing, and keeping pure and entire all such religious worship and ordinances, as God hath appointed in his word. (Deuteronomy 32:46; Matthew 23:20; Acts 2:42)

<!-- LONG_ANSWER -->

## Additional Exposition

### Section 1

**Q:** May civil honour be given to creatures?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** Thy father’s children shall bow down before thee, (Genesis 49:8)

**Q:** But is divine worship due only to God?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** Him only shalt thou serve, (Matthew 4:10)

**Q:** Is the light of nature sufficient to direct us in the worship of God?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** Whom ye ignorantly worship, (Acts 17:23)

**Q:** Should we therefore have recourse to the written word?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** And (Joshua 8:31)

### Practical response

**Q:** Should all God’s ordinances be received?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** Receive, I pray thee, the law from his mouth, (Job 22:22)

**Q:** And observed?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** Ye shall observe my statutes, (Leviticus 19:37)

**Q:** And kept pure without adulteration?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** And thou not unto his’ words, (Proverbs 30:6)

**Q:** And entire without diminution?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** Ye have not kept my ways, but “have been partial in my law, (Malachi 2:9)

**Q:** Is this especially the duty of ministers?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** The good thing which was committed to thee keep, (2 Timothy 1:14)

### Section 3

**Q:** May not our own fancies be the rule of our worship?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** Remember the commandments of the Lord, and seek not after your own heart, and your own eyes, (Numbers 15:39)

**Q:** Nor the customs of men?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** After the doings of the land of Egypt, and after the doings of the land of Canaan, ye shall not do, (Leviticus 18:3)

**Q:** Nor the prescriptions of superiors?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** Be it known unto thee, O King, that we will not serve thy Gods, (Daniel 3:18)

**Q:** Should we therefore keep close to God’s word as our rule?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** And look that thou make them after the pattern, (Exodus 25:40)

**Q:** Nor be affrighted therefrom by the greatest reproaches or sufferings?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** None of these things move me, (Acts 20:24)
