---
id: 99
title: Are the infants of such as are professing believers to be baptized?
slug: bc-99
categories:
  - bc
---

The infants of such as are professing believers are not to be baptized, because there is neither command or example in the holy scriptures, or certain consequence from them to baptize such.

## Proofs
- The infants of such as are professing believers are not to be baptized, because there is neither command or example in the holy scriptures, or certain consequence from them to baptize such. (Proverbs 30:6; Luke 3:7–8)

<!-- LONG_ANSWER -->

## Additional Exposition

<a href="https://baptistcatechism.org/beddome/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">From Benjamin Beddome</a>


### Section 1

**Q:** Are the subjects of baptism plainly set forth in the divine word?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** They were baptized both men and women, (Acts 8:12)

**Q:** And doth the silence of scripture concerning others amount to a prohibition?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** Who hath required this at your hand? (Isaiah 1:12)

### Section 2

**Q:** Had children a right to circumcision under the law?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** Every man child among you shall be circumcised, (Genesis 17:10)

**Q:** And had servants the same?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** Abraham circumcised his son and all that were bought with his money the same day, (Genesis 17:23)

**Q:** Was this in itself a privilege?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** For it was a part of that hand writing of ordinances that was against us, (Colossians 2:14)

**Q:** And is it now abolished?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** For Christ hath took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross, (Colossians 2:14)

### Section 3

**Q:** Doth not baptism come in the room of circumcision?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** For Christ was both circumcised and baptized, (Luke 2:21)

**Q:** Had the apostles a fair opportunity to mention such a substitution had it taken place?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** For some said, Except ye be circumcised after the manner of Moses ye cannot be saved, (Acts 15:1)

**Q:** And did they mention it?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** They only made a decree, (Acts 15:19, 28)

### Section 4

**Q:** Was not the covenant made with Abraham, the covenant of grace?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** But a mixed covenant, consisting partly of temporal blessings, (Genesis 17:2–14)

**Q:** But as far as it was a covenant of grace, did it not belong to all Abraham’s natural seed?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** Not because they are the seed of Abraham are they all children, (Romans 9:7)

**Q:** But is it not said for an everlasting covenant to be a God to thee and to thy seed after thee?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** But the children of the promise are counted for the seed, (Romans 9:8)

**Q:** Are all others then, whether infants or adults, excluded?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** For they are, aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, (Ephesians 2:12)

### Section 5

**Q:** Was not circumcision a seal of the covenant?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** But a token of it, (Genesis 17:11)

**Q:** Was it a seal to Abraham?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** And to him only a seal of the righteousness of the faith which he had yet being uncircumcised, (Romans 4:11)

**Q:** Are not the children of believers included in the covenant?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** They which are the children of the flesh, are not the seed of God, (Romans 9:8)

**Q:** Must they therefore be Christ’s in order to be the right seed?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** If ye be Christ’s, then are ye Abraham’s seed, and heir; according to the promise, (Galatians 3:29)

### Section 6

**Q:** Were not children brought to Christ to be baptized?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** But that he should put his hands on them and pray, (Matthew 19:13)

**Q:** And does even this appear to have been an unusual thing?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** For the disciples rebuked them, (Matthew 19:13)

**Q:** But does not the apostle say, the promise is to you and to your children?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** But he adds, even to as many as the Lord our God shall call, (Acts 2:39)

### Section 7

**Q:** Might not infants be included in the household of Crispus which was baptized?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** For we read that he believed with all his house, (Acts 18:8)

**Q:** Or in that of the jailer?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** For he rejoiced, believing in God with all his house, (Acts 16:34)

**Q:** Or in that of Stephanas?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** For they had addicted themselves to the ministry of the saints, (1 Corinthians 16:15)

**Q:** Or in that of Lydia?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** For the apostles entered into the house of Lydia, and when they had seen the brethren, they comforted them and departed, (Acts 16:40)

### Section 8

**Q:** Are not infants members of the gospel church as they were once of the Jewish?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** For it consists of such as are sanctified in Christ Jesus, and called to be saints, (1 Corinthians 1:2)

**Q:** May they not be disciples?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** For we are made and not born disciples, (John 4:1)

**Q:** But are they not said to be holy?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** In the same sense as the unbelieving husband or wife, (1 Corinthians 7:14)

### Section 9

**Q:** Does not that passage, of such is the kingdom of heaven, favour infant baptism?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** For Christ explains it, by adding, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall not enter therein, (Mark 10:15)

**Q:** Nor that, if the root is holy so also are the branches?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** For that which is born of the flesh is flesh, (John 3:6)

**Q:** Should we in this and all other controversies be guided by the word of God?  
**A:** Yes.  
**Proof:** In all things I have said unto thee be thou circumspect, (Exodus 23:13)

**Q:** And not pay an undue regard to the customs or opinions of men?  
**A:** No.  
**Proof:** Walk ye not in the statutes of your fathers, nor observe their judgments. I am the Lord your God, (Ezekiel 20:18–19)
