---
id: 85
title: How is the kingdom of heaven closed and opened by church discipline?
slug: hc-85
categories:
  - hc
relatedAnswers:
  - aoc-94
---

According to the command of Christ, people who call themselves Christians but show themselves to be unchristian in doctrine or life are first repeatedly admonished in a brotherly manner. If they do not give up their errors or wickedness, they are reported to the church, that is, to the elders. If they do not heed also their admonitions, they are forbidden the use of the sacraments, and they are excluded by the elders from the Christian congregation, and by God Himself from the kingdom of Christ. They are again received as members of Christ and of the church when they promise and show real amendment.

## Proofs
- According to the command of Christ, people who call themselves Christians but show themselves to be unchristian in doctrine or life are first repeatedly admonished in a brotherly manner. If they do not give up their errors or wickedness, they are reported to the church, that is, to the elders. If they do not heed also their admonitions, they are forbidden the use of the sacraments, and they are excluded by the elders from the Christian congregation, and by God Himself from the kingdom of Christ. (Matthew 18:15–20; 1 Corinthians 5:3–5; 1 Corinthians 5:11–13; 2 Thessalonians 3:14–15)
- They are again received as members of Christ and of the church when they promise and show real amendment. (Luke 15:20–24; 2 Corinthians 2:6–11)
